the first thing I have a student do or
anybody do the first thing I do is clean
my glass and I always use the crl CR
laurence glass cleaner I'm only 23 glass
cleaner that way in case you have any
debris on the glass itself and you put
the resist on you avoid may be
scratching that glass plus it's just a
good idea to have clean glass so glass
is clean the next thing I do is put on
the resist I try to cut it in advance to
roughly the size of the glass because
this runs about an old buck and a half a
square foot now and hip adds up so i
saved the scraps for nameplates or to
patch the edges of things it's good
don't don't throw it away if it's any
decent size ok I fold back the top of
the top of the backing and I turn it
over and I hold it like so my thumbs and
then I stretch it out to be sure I don't
have it all cockeyed somewhere and then
I just for the heck of it just stick
this one piece down then I smooth it out
to be sure that that resists all over
the glass and I do so then i will start
smoothing it I don't like to use a
squeegee as I think the squeegees
stretch and weak and the resist as you
can see this way you go at your own
speed and you're feeling if there's a
little piece of anything under there and
believe me I found like grains of sand
underneath there I don't know how they
get their weather there between the
paper and the resist or what but I just
go as slowly as the resist goes that way
I have no bubbles or very few bubbles
okay and once that's done I take my
handy dandy knife that I use just for
glass trimming or in the cabinet because
it's going to get already and I cut off
the ends the excess of the resist now I
like to lean it over the edge of the
table and rest my knife slightly
backwards to get a nice clean cut
turn it and that wasn't as clear cut as
I would like you can see how laying it
down really helps sometimes you'll need
to make an expert cut course I'm not at
my studio work table so it's not quite
as good down here in the kitchen but you
can see using the knife against just a
seemed edge of glass will dull it so you
don't want to use a good way so just
keep a designated knife this or to go in
your cabinet okay so that's pretty much
that now what I do is if I'm going to
use this glass so that i can save both
pieces of it and use both pieces then i
will need to cut what I call a double
line I have found that using one of the
fat sharpies on its edge makes about the
perfect width so I'll decide where I
want this to go let's say we want it to
go hoop that isn't very fat want to go
just across and if it isn't quite fat
enough just give it a little more once
again you don't have to be exactly
accurate because you can follow along
and then compensate on the other side
when you cut so now I'm going to cut
this with my super new grip old knife
with the cushion grip which is really
nice if you're going to spend a lot of
hours cutting kids I've cut that I'll
turn it around and cut the other side
you want to have about a quarter of an
inch thickness for this double line that
way your resist blast fits inside the
space very neatly and you don't spend a
lot of extra time cutting through the
glass like you would if you had a really
wide cut then I use my handy dandy
Griffin poker and
pull it off if I saw that there was
something really narrow like say right
here that's a little narrower than some
of this other just go up here a little
ways and push your knife against the
edge and widen that somewhat remember
you don't have to be totally accurate
and perfect here because you're going to
be blowing this piece of glass totally
out of the middle of it and then you're
going to be working on it later so just
kind of get it the way you want it
because you'll be changing the shape of
it somewhat later now if I were to just
take this piece of glass and this is how
a lot of people shaped glass and just
cut a line like this and then pull it
off I would cut through this of course
but I would lose this entire piece of
glass it would be blasted and it would
take you a lot longer to cut through
because you only have one edge of the
resist keeping the blast in a given
place so that's about it for now we are
going to blast through this as well
because then we'll take this piece and
kind of make it into some unusual shape
once we finished so i'll put a give you
stick that piece of resist back on for
now and remove it when we're up there
blasting so we're going to wander over
and up and around and through to the
blast room and we will show you how to
cut this glass into and perhaps make a
few levels on it kind of like mike smart
did with his jewelry in the article hope
you've read it okay talk to you later
see you up in the studio baba